Assignment #2 Total 15 marks, due Monday Feb 2nd


The folder “FrontEnd” contains an html file index.js which is a simple website to
display the weather for several cities. There is also a javascript file which has a
DOMContentLoaded handler and a change event handler for the city select element.
There is a backend folder which is empty. This is where we will be creating a file
index.js that will contain a simple express server.

We will be using the openweathermap.org/api to get the weather forecast. You must
go to the openweathermap.org website and register for an api key.

Part 1: Create a simple express server, to return a fake weather report for each of
the cities. (10 Marks) SAVE A COPY OF YOUR index.mjs file named
index_part1.mjs before moving on to part 2.
Steps:

1- In the backend folder, setup an npm package. This will allow you to make use of
npm modules such as express.

2- In the backend folder, setup a simple express server in the index.mjs file. Have
one POST request route which accepts json data containing the city. EX// { “city”:
“Toronto”}. The route should return a weather report in JSON format with the
following information:
-description ( Rain, Snow, Clouds, Sunshine etc. )
-temperature ( make sure to display it in degrees Celsius)
-windspeed
Just make up a different weather report for each city.

3- Test your backend api in postman to make sure it is working.

4- Connect your front end to the backend by making a fetch call in the select
element change event handler. Perform dom scripting to display the weather
information in the front end.
(Note that in order for your front end to work with the backend you will need to
setup the cors package middleware as shown in the book)

Part 2: Modify the express server to use the openweathermap.org/api to get
accurate weather info for each of the cities. ( 5 marks )

Have the backend perform a fetch call to the
https://openweathermap.org/current api. Using the JSON response, have the route
return the same information as before in part 1. ( description, temperature,
windspeed)


SUPER BONUS ( 2 marks, you must complete both in order to get the bonus)
a) The cors middleware is used to allow the front end to make api calls to the
backend. This is needed because they are being run as two different servers
( front end is run through live server ) ( backend is run through the express
module ).

A better approach in this situation would be to have the express server also serve
the front end. Complete this step:

1) Remove the cors middleware from the backend

2) Add a get route for the ‘/’ root of the backend which returns the files in the
front end.

b) Enhance the front end. Based on the description of the weather, have your
website display an image related to the description.